# Anonymous Types

[back](../README.md)

Anonymous Types provide a convenient way to encapsulate a set of read-only properties into a single object without having to explicitly define a type first.

The type name is generated by  the compiler and is not available at the source code level.

The type of each property is inferred by the compiler.

``` cs
  var v = new { Amount = 42, Message = "Hi!" }; // Amount is inferred as int and Message is inferred as string.
```

Anonymous types contains one or more public read-only properties. No other kinds of class members (methods, events) are valid.

If you do not specify member names in the anonymous type, the compiler gives the anonymous type members the same name as the property being used to initialize them.

``` cs
  var productQuery =
    from prod in products
    select new { prod.Color, prod.Price }; // same as new {Color = prod.Color, Price = prod.Price }
```

Anonymous types are class types that derive directly from *object* and that cannot be cast to any type except *object*.

If teo or more anonymous object initializers in an assembly specify a sequence of properties that are in the same order and that have the same names and types, the compiler treats the objects as instances of the same type. They share the same compiler-generated type information.

To pass an anonymous type, or a collection that contains anonymous types, as an argument to a method, you can declare the parameter as type object. (This defeats the purpose of strong typing)

Two instances of the same anonymous type are equal only if all their properties are equals.

## Resources

[Anonymous Types](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/dotnet/csharp/programming-guide/classes-and-structs/anonymous-types)
